<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
   <style type="text/css">code{white-space: pre;}</style>
   <link href='https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Chivo:900' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>
   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../stylesheets/stylesheet.css" media="screen">
   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../stylesheets/github-dark.css" media="screen">
   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../stylesheets/print.css" media="print">

  <title></title>
  <style type="text/css">code{white-space: pre;}</style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../stylesheets/pandoc.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
   <div id="container">
   <div class="inner">

<h1>Twinkles Weekly: February 8, 2017</h1>
<p>We’re getting ready for next week’s DESC meeting, preparing slides and planning hacks. The Run 3 process is in the queue behind DC1 PhoSim Deep, so we discussed various workarounds.</p>
<h2 id="collaboration-meeting-session-prep"><strong><a href="https://confluence.slac.stanford.edu/display/LSSTDESC/SLAC+2017+-+Twinkles"><em>Collaboration Meeting Session</em></a> Prep</strong></h2>
<p>We discussed our slide decks: no gaps have been identified so far, but we will flag them up in the #twinkles Slack channel as we find them.</p>
<h2 id="dm-processing"><strong>DM processing</strong></h2>
<p>We need weekly 3 or later including twinkles hacks -- Scott will make an updated twinkles release today and then we need Heather to install it at NERSC.</p>
<p>Tony is prioritizing DC1 PhoSim Deep processing before the meeting, but will try and run the new Twinkles cookbook recipe on the year 5 visit images before the Meeting as well, so that Simon has something to look at. This may slip to being done at the meeting itself.</p>
<h2 id="hack-day-plans"><strong>Hack Day Plans</strong></h2>
<p>Simon and Michael: DIAObject forced photometry</p>
<p>Rahul: Start looking at formalism for dealing with host properties and SNe: Monitor upgrade, to pull out hosts as well as SNe. Needs test data repo from Simon (which has Objects with cmodel galaxy measurements)</p>
<p>Bryce and Phil: Lensed quasar light curves, pulling DIASources out for each lens</p>
<p>DIAObject(s). Needs test data repo from Simon (which has DIAObjects with DIASources).</p>
<p>Tony and Simon: Diagnosis of NERSC Run 3 processing</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
